ACADEMIC EXPECTATIONS

**We give you this**:  
* private mentoring, direction, resources, an in person experience, and a community of webdev enthusiasts.

**You do this**: 
* **Learning**:  You are here to learn, not to perform. We would rather see:  clean readable code that does not do everything it is supposed to, ugly websites that work well, unfinished projects accompanied by a well thought-out study plan to cover the concepts that held you up, a buggy project where you tried something challenging or experimental, code you understand and can explain, ... than code that works but is ugly and you don’t understand.  

* **Learning pace**:  We expect that everyone will move through the weekly projects at the same rate; Weekly.  If you are moving faster than the others, come to us and we will help you expand on this week's projects rather than moving you ahead to next week. 
The lectures are likewise built to match this scheme.  All lectures will be high-level treatments of their subjects.  Their principle goal will be to (hopefully) introduce the ‘why’ for the next tool or skill in the curriculum right around when you’re getting annoyed by not having it.  Lectures will be highish level presentations of new topics - they are designed to be beneficial if followed with only a pencil and paper. It will be up to you to master the subjects that are most important or interesting for you.  Afternoon code reviews will be the chance to discuss implelementation.  
This is for a few reasons:  
  1) Ya’ll learn at different paces and in different ways. (from experience) Initial technical introductions are too slow for some, to fast for others, and not helpful for the rest.  We have provided you with study guides and links to the best learning resources we could find or create for each topic.  
  2)  To keep everyone as together as possible, we are introducing new topics first at a conversational level of understanding.  The hope is even if the programming takes some of you longer to master, that won’t keep you from participating .  You will have the diagrams and vocabulary necessary to think about each topic and participate in discussions while your coding skills catch up.

* **Study**:  We expect you all to work outside of class time.  We simply can’t teach all of you everything, it is up to you (and us, through one-on-ones) to decide what you will learn on your own and what we’ll help you with, what you'll master and what you'll leave for later.  For some of you this may mean we have private study sessions in syntax, for others it might mean we have daily coding challenges prepared for you.  The importance is that you work enough outside of class so you come ready to take in the day’s new concepts and come prepared with something concrete we can help you with (a bug you couldn’t fix, a finished mini-project you want help refactoring, a list of questions, a topic you’d like to talk about, …).

* **RMC**:  Read, Modify, Create.  We recommend you proceed in this order.  We’ve done our best to provide you with a variety of good code samples pertaining to each topic.  If you need help with the M after finishing the R, come to us.  We can help by providing addon challenges, refactor challenges, by introducing good bugs, or deleting portions of code. RMC also plays out over the course of the whole program.  If you have trouble creating programs from scratch, there is no shame in your first projects being entirely of the M category.  RMC is also nice for practice reading.  You’ll spend far more time reading code than writing it in your life.
